We worked a bit on the cart model.
Some things are still missing.
For example, we never display our cart
and we also will never really...
We're not able to delete an item from the cart
but let's ignore that for the moment.
Let's instead focus on editing a product.
We get the edit-product.ejs file
and in the end, what I wanna do in there
is I want to render the same form I have for add-product.
The difference will be that I want to pre-populate that form
with the values of the product I wanna edit.
Now, if I'm using the same HTML code in the end,
it would make sense to reuse the same template.
If you ever plan on using a different one,
it doesn't, but here it makes sense.
So what I'll do is I'll take my add-product.ejs code
and move it into edit-product
because I find this to be the more generic name
and I'll delete the add-product.ejs file.
So now we just have edit-product.ejs
with all the HTML code in there that we need.
Now, first of all,
that means that I have to load that file
in admin.js when we load getAddProduct.
I no longer need the add-product path here,
I need edit-product here only.
The path down there can stay add-product
because that is what we use
for highlighting a certain navigation item.
By the way, we can get rid
of these additional information pieces.
So now this should still work.
If I click on Add Product,
I still see that form.
So that's looking good.
However, for editing a product,
I now also want to have a route
and I wanna use that same view.
So I'll copy that route here
and add it maybe below postAddProduct
to keep these two together.
And here I will have getEditProduct as a action name.
And I also wanna render edit-product here.
The difference is that here I plan
on passing in my product information.
But the problem is, of course,
how should I reach this controller action?
And my idea
is that since I already have my Edit button here,
if I click that, I don't wanna call edit-product like this,
I also want to add the ID of the product I wanna edit.
So if I grab a real ID
from my products.json file like this one,
then I would have that in the URL
and if I load this,
now I want to have the form pre-populated
with the data for this product,
and if I hit the Save button,
I, of course, don't want to create this product
but simply edit the existing one.
Now, this means that I need two things.
The ID, I need to pass that,
and the information that I want to edit a product
instead of create it.
Well, if we go to our admin routes,
we can add a new route, first of all,
this edit-product route here with the ID
and you learned how that works actually.
You can add a new route here.
Get route will be at slash
and then here the /admin is available
for all routes in the admin.js file anyways
as you know.
So it's just edit-product
and then the ID, and again,
this is a variable, a dynamic path segment
indicated with a colon.
And then we can load the adminController
and there the getEditProduct action we just added.
So this is step number one.
And actually, we now already can go
to our admin.js controller
and here we obviously know that we wanna edit a product.
So what we can do
is we can pass an additional information field
to our view, editing, and set this to true maybe
so that we can check this with the if condition
to find out, for example,
if upon clicking that Save button,
we should try to add the product
and send a request to that route
or try to edit it and send it to a different route.
But let's say we want to get an additional confirmation
by ensuring that people have to pass us
a so-called query parameter in the URL.
A query parameter can be added to any URL
by adding a question mark
and then a key-value pair, separated by an equal sign,
like edit equals true.
And you can have multiple query parameters
by separating them with ampersands.
So we could also have title equals new, for example.
So this is possible
and this is so-called optional data.
The path here, the route which gets reached
is determined by the part up to the question mark.
So you don't need to add any information
about query parameters you might get
to your routes file.
These paths are not affected.
But you can always check for query parameters
in your controllers.
So here we can check if const editMode,
if this is set by going to our request
and there will be a query object.
This is also created and managed by Express.js.
And you can access your data here
by simply trying to access the keys you got
in your query parameters.
So for this query parameter that was added,
you could check for edit.
This would be your key.
So I can try to access edit here
and only if this is set somewhere
in the list of query parameters,
which can be separated with ampersands as I mentioned,
if this is set,
then I will get the value which is set.
So now I would have true in editMode.
And if I don't have it, if I don't find it,
I'll simply have undefined,
which conveniently is also treated as false
in a Boolean check.
So we can then pass editMode here
and now we only enter editMode if this is set.
And therefore, we could also check
if not editMode and then simply redirect.
Now, this is kind of a redundant thing here to do
to be honest because actually here,
we already know that we wanna edit the product.
But I want to show you how you can use query parameters
to set optional information,
pass additional information.
Often, this is also used for something like tracking users
or for example, for keeping a certain filter the user set
on a page.
Here, I'll use it to explicitly set that editMode
and redirect otherwise.
So now I extract this
and try to load this
and therefore if I now save this
and I connect my newly created action here
with the route as I already did it here,
if I now reload this page
with the dynamic segment set
and the query parameter added,
then I land on this Add Product page,
which is incorrect.
I need to change that path.
But that means that I don't get redirected,
so I made it in there
and editMode should be set to true.
Now, we can also set the path here
to edit-product to make sure
that this is not highlighted here.
Instead, I want to have no highlighted section
and this will not be because I have no check
in my navigation where I would look for this specific path.
And I'll set the page title also
to Edit Product for this route.
So now if I reload this, this looks better.
And as a next step in the next lecture,
I now wanna use the fact information
that I noted I'm in editMode
in my view to pre-populate this with product information
and then also to change the button caption
and the button action.